## Subsets
The set $A$ is a subset of the set $B$ if and only if every element of $A$ is also an element of $B$. 
$$
\forall x\in A, x\in B
$$
$$
\forall x(x\in A\rightarrow x\in B)
$$
For any set $S$ it holds that $\emptyset\subseteq S$ and $S\subseteq S$. 
### Proper subsets
$A$ is a proper subset of $B$ if $A\subseteq B$, but $A\neq B$. Here we use the notation $A\subset B$.
### What is *not* a subset?
There are cases where it may be confusing whether one set is a subset of another set. For example:
$$
\set{a}\not\subseteq\set{\set{a},\set{b}}
$$
Since $\{a\}$ is actually an element *in* the set on the right, therefore it is only the case that
$$
\begin{aligned}
\set{a}&\in\set{\set{a},\set{b}}, \\
\set{\set{a}}&\subseteq\set{\set{a},\set{b}}.
\end{aligned}
$$
## Power sets
A power set of a set, $A$, notated as $\mathcal{P}(A)$, is the set containing all possible subsets of $A$. This can be represented as
$$
x\in \mathcal{P}(A)\iff x\subseteq A.
$$
In [[2 Sets|set builder notation]], this can be represented as
$$
\mathcal{P}(A)=\set{x|x\subseteq A},
$$
where $x$ is also a set. An example of a power set can look like this:
$$
\begin{aligned}
A&=\set{a,b,c} \\
\mathcal{P}(A)&=\set{
	\set{a},
	\set{b},
	\set{c},
	\set{a,b},
	\set{a,c},
	\set{b,c},
	\set{a,b,c},
	\emptyset
}
\end{aligned}
$$

^9016f3

As we can see, the set $A$ containing 3 elements has a power set containing 8 elements. For each element in $A$, we have the choice of whether or not to add it to a possible subset. Therefore, the [[2.1 Cardinality of sets and set operations|cardinality]] of a power set follows
$$
|A|=n\implies|\mathcal{P}(A)|=2^{|A|}=2^n.
$$
So if we have a set $A$ with a cardinality of 8, for example, we get
$$
|A|=8\implies|\mathcal{P}(A)|=2^8=256.
$$
Nested power sets create power towers when looking at the cardinality:
$$
\begin{aligned}
|A|&=m \\
|\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{P}(A)))|&=2^{|\mathcal{P}(\mathcal{P}(A))|} \\
&=2^{2^{|\mathcal{P}(A)|}} \\
&=2^{2^{2^{|A|}}} \\
&=2^{2^{2^m}}
\end{aligned}
$$
### Is $A$ a subset of $\mathcal{P}(A)$?
It can be confusing to differentiate between the meanings of subsets and elements when talking about power sets. For a set $A$ containing the empty set, we can observe that
$$
A=\set{\emptyset}\implies \mathcal{P}(A)=\set{\emptyset,\set{\emptyset}}.
$$
For this case, it is true that $A$ is a subset of its own power set $\mathcal{P}(A)$, so
$$
\exists A,A\subseteq p(A).
$$
We must not be quick to assume that this is true for *every* $A$, however, since
$$
A=\set{a,b}\implies \mathcal{P}(A)=\set{\set{a},\set{b},\set{a,b},\emptyset}
$$
In this case, 
$$
A\not\subseteq \mathcal{P}(A).
$$
Because we have this counterexample, our final statement about whether $A$ is a subset of $\mathcal{P}(A)$ must be
$$
\exists A,A\subseteq \mathcal{P}(A)\wedge\neg(\forall A,A\subseteq \mathcal{P}(A)).
$$
Or: while there exists a set  which is a subset of its power set $\mathcal{P}(A)$, this is not true for all $A$. In fact, the only sets for which it is true that the set is a subset of its own power set, are sets that contain the empty set, or the empty set itself, since it is always true that $\emptyset\subseteq S$. At the same time, though, the following is true:
$$
\forall A,A\in \mathcal{P}(A).
$$
This is where the difference between a set being a subset of another set, and a set being a member of another set, or the difference between $A\subseteq B$ and $A\in B$, gets a little confusing. In [[#^9016f3]], we can observe that $\set{a,b,c}$ is indeed a member of $\mathcal{P}(A)$, but it is **not** a subset, because if that were the case, it would be the case that
$$
a\in\mathcal{P}(A)\wedge b\in\mathcal{P}(A)\wedge c\in\mathcal{P}(A),
$$
and this is, in fact, not the case.  Only the set *containing* $a$, $b$, and $c$ are in the power set of $A$. Not the actual elements.
